We are going to start CSS from today's video. We have progressed a lot in this course, having finished all of HTML. Many of you showed a lot of enthusiasm; don't let your interest decline in this video. Like this video, and with high energy, write "Sigma Batch OP" in the comment section below. We have to maintain such high energy throughout the course.

CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets. With the help of Cascading Style Sheets, we supplement HTML with some styles. HTML was never intended to create styled pages; its work was always to create a basic website structure. After that, CSS takes the responsibility to style the page. CSS has selectors that help in selecting any element. In this video, I will tell you what a selector is and how CSS is written. In the coming videos, we are going to raise the bar significantly. We will make real-world websites, and you will be capable of making websites similar to Amazon, Flipkart, Netflix, and YouTube. I am very excited. Let's go to the computer screen. Let's roll the intro.

[Intro plays]

I have come to my computer screen. As always, I will make a folder here, named "video 14." I am having a lot of fun in this course because, honestly speaking, I have never made a course of this level before.

First, I will explain why you will use CSS. HTML was never made to style web pages; it was always made to create a skeleton. There were many tags in HTML, like the `font` tag, which were deprecated because HTML was solely responsible for creating a skeletal website. After that, CSS's job was to handle all the styling.

In this video, we will make real-world websites. If you haven't accessed the playlist, please do so. The source code is available. If you go to codewithhari.com, you can download the HTML notes. You will find additional things to see. As soon as you click on the PDF notes, you will get the PDF notes for HTML. These are handwritten notes that I have written with a lot of hard work, so everyone must download them. I will put a link in the description.

I told you one thing: if HTML is the body of the car, then CSS is the paint, decoration, designs, seats, and interior. What is JavaScript? It's the engine and internal logic. We will talk about the engine and internal logic later. We have completed HTML, and now we are talking about CSS.

Now I will give you some more examples. Think of your human body. The human body has a skeleton; you can consider the skeleton as HTML. Skin and hair, you can consider all of this as CSS. Our brain, our nerves, our neurons—all of that constitutes our JavaScript. I hope this is clear. HTML was never intended to style websites; this responsibility was taken by CSS. CSS essentially said, "HTML is enough for you; I am here, and I will help you with styling." So, CSS took the responsibility of styling the pages.

Download the HTML notes. Spoiler alert: CSS notes are also very good! But listen to me first: I have given the spoiler, but don't download them now. I have taken a lot of time to create them. As I said, I have never made a course of this level.

If I click "Shift + Right Click" and then "Open with Code," this "video 14" folder is opened in my VS Code. Now, if I make a file `index.html` and hit the exclamation mark, some boilerplate code appears, just like we were doing in our HTML course. Similarly, for HTML videos, I will write "CSS" in the title and in the body, I will write a `div` and inside it, "Hey, I am Harry, and today I am in CSS mood." I have written this, and I will preview it. As soon as I click on preview, you can see "Hey, I am Harry, and today I am in CSS mood."

What is CSS? You can add CSS by using the `<style>` tag. There are two more ways, which I will tell you about in the coming videos. I will tell you a lot of things. Now, if I say, "Bro, color the `div` red," what did I say? "Color the `div` red." So, inside this `div`, this `div` is a selector, and this is our declaration. So, selector and declaration. What is a selector? It is a `div`, meaning the color of all the `div` elements on this page. `color` is our property, and `red` is the value of that property. So, this is our declaration, and this is our selector. I hope you understood this.

If I show you the page, you see the color of this page is red because I said that whatever `div` is on this page, make its color red. If I make another `div` here and write "I am good," the color of "I am good" will also be red, as you can see. If I add one more declaration to this and write `background: yellow;`, its background also becomes yellow. Whatever matches this selector, that element's background will become yellow. As you see here, I said `div`, and here this was a `div` and that was a `div`.

If I make a `span` here and write "I am also good," what will happen? Will this also be red? No, its color will not be red because this selector and these declarations are not applicable to these elements, any element that is not a `div`. If I put a paragraph here and put "lorem 43," (Oops, I think 435 is too much, 43 is enough. I have put a very big lorem here because it will make our page very big.) This declaration was not applied to this, nor was it applied to the paragraph. I just said `div`, that's why all these conditions have been applied only to `div` elements.

Now I can also select multiple elements by putting a comma. I can say, "Do this in both `div` and `span`." So, the color will turn red in both `div` and `span`—both will have a red color, and the background color will be yellow. `div` and `span` are my selectors, so I have applied these declarations to multiple selectors. `background-color` is a property whose value is `yellow`. `color` is a property whose value is `red`. You can see wherever a `div` or a `span` is present, this styling will be applied. That's pretty much how CSS works.

In the coming videos, we will learn about different properties and selectors. I will be telling you about different types of selectors. It's as simple as that. By using these selectors, we can make websites like Amazon, Flipkart, Facebook, and Instagram. Nowadays, there are so many technologies in the market by which you can make mobile apps. We will explore all these things. It's going to be a very extensive course, and we will be touching so many things.

I gave you an exercise in video 12. If you didn't post your answer, do it now. I will give a shout-out to those who post their answers. Make sure you go to video 12 and solve the "pure HTML player" exercise. It will be fun if there is two-way interaction. There will be talks from both sides. I will give you a shout-out from here, and you will have fun when you solve it from there. So, do solve this.

Now I want to tell you about Replit. Many people say they have a phone but no laptop, which causes problems. Replit is an amazing platform that you can try out. You just have to sign up there, and you will be able to write HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. It works very well. I have used it for my production-grade projects, and I have also made many videos on this channel, showing you how to use Replit. In fact, we did "100 days of code" on Replit. You can use this if you don't have a laptop; you can code on your phone. It will be a very good experience for you.

Please write in the comment section below if you are enjoying this course or not, because I want your comments. Do access this playlist and also the source code. I have updated the source code of all the videos. And name the land of your village and town. That's all for this video, guys. Thank you so much for watching this video, and I will see you next time. Thanks for watching!